---
title: "How to manage your time"
author: "Ananya Aggarwal"
layout: "post"
---

In this day and age, time management is a critical skill to have in order to get the most out of each day. Many of us are extremely busy whether it is with sports, multiple jobs, family, or maintaining friendships. Try using these methods to properly manage your time and maximize your performance.
<!-- more -->


### 1. Track your time

The most obvious first step when it comes to time management is
figuring out where your time is going. You might think you are
spending only 20 minutes checking your messages when in reality you
have spent an hour on it. This way, you can see what is stealing your
time and may come to the realization that it is a waste.


### 2. Set limits to a task or project

Set aside a certain amount of time for each task so you can avoid
distractions and procrastination.


### 3. Make sure to plan ahead

Every night or early in the morning, it is important to think about
and even write down what you are going to accomplish tomorrow. Instead
of waking up and wasting time planning your day or panicking and
wandering aimlessly.


### 3. Change your schedule to maximize your performance

Find the time of the day you are the most productive and adapt your
day around that time and get all of your important work done during
that period.


### 5. Leave buffer time in between tasks to take a mental break

Recharging your brain is crucial and giving yourself a break will
actually boost your
[performance](https://www.fastcompany.com/3013188/unplug/why-you-need-to-unplug-every-90-minutes).
Try to take a walk, workout, talk to a friend, or eat something in
between tasks.


### 6. Stay organized

There are many different ways you can stay organized whether that is
keeping your workspace clean or getting an online calendar to set up
reminders and have a legit schedule at your fingertips.


### 7. [Do less](https://zenhabits.net/the-lazy-manifesto-do-less-then-do-even-less/)

Slow down and be aware of what you are doing and focus on the task at
hand. Stop trying to multitask, and create more value and effort into
each thing you do, that way you don't have to come back to it when you
realize you did a poor job.


### 8. Prioritize your tasks

Figure out which of your tasks are the most important and do them
first. Sometimes when you do this you also realize that another thing
you were going to do is actually a waste of time and you don't even
need to do it.


### 9. Use all your time even when you are [waiting](https://www.thebalancesmb.com/how-to-have-successful-home-office-meetings-with-clients-4119334)

Whether you are at a dentist or doctor appointment waiting, you can
always have some kind of work on your phone to do or just simply read
a magazine. You can be planning for the next task while waiting or
looking at spreadsheets.


### 10. Stop trying to do so much

Find someone qualified [to
outsource](https://www.projectsmart.co.uk/10-tips-for-managing-time-effectively.php)
a task so you can focus on the bigger projects. You will save a lot of
time if you can pay someone else to do easier tasks that you can use
for more complicated projects.
